---
Date: 2012-08-31
Title: App.Net
layout: post
Tags: app.net, social, network, blog
---

A few days ago I joined the site <a href="https://join.app.net">app.net</a>, currently, it's a buzzing super-space of developers, tinkerers and techy people alike. The total member list is somewhere around 18-20k and at the moment that's just perfect - you can troll global feed for things that interest you (which for the moment seems to be everything) and theres no noticably annoying people over there.

As far as I can tell, the whole idea behind app.net is freedom without restraint. Although being a subscriber service ($50 for users and $100 for devs) it's arguable you're actually paying a lot more on services like facebook, twitter etc.. app.net revolves around honesty, which is what you pay for, initially, the headline advantages are as follows

		No ads - ever

		Download a very comprehensive and complete user data export

		Completely delete your account

		Being the main priority, not advertisers

There's a completely unscalable amount of benifits and draw-backs, it all depends on your own personal opinion. I, personally, would rather pay for a real time social feed like app.net with a dollar value then pay for facebook, twitter, google~youtube etc.. with my identity.

{{more}}
# No Ads - Ever

This sounds great, I mean - whats $50 a year (with anticipation of a decrease) when you don't get annoying and destructive advertisement mixed in. It's Awesome!

On the flip side ads can be almost not the worst thing which is still an option, for example, I'm personally I'm working on an app.net client for Mac and iOS amoung the main features is the option to turn on and off TARADS - tarads is a smart ad service, much like the one implemented into facebook which provides ads relevant to what you're currently doing, the main difference is TARADS is soon to be open source and has much more friendly results.

# Data Export

I had to test this out for myself and was very impressed with the results. Theres not much to say, only that the data export option in your settings is exactly what you'd hoped and a bit more. I was a bit overwhelemed with how much information was given but I guess theres never too much.

# Completely Delete Your Account

I did read over some docs about this and from that understood _everything_ would be deleted, this is ofcourse unlike other sites - specifically ad supported ones. Also in a <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GqgmYci3BMM">QA</a> by <a href="https://alpha.app.net/documentally">Documentally</a> with app.net Founder and CEO Dalton Caldwell - he confirms this. The reason being, individual user data is only usefull if you can do something with it (as all things are, generally) since app.net does not have ad's or any other third parties who could or would be able to use it there is no need to keep it, in the end it's just taking up server space for no reason.

# You're Number 1

Another plus about there being no advertisers is you the user are number one! You're the one pay the money so your the one that is provided the service of real time social feed. Unlike facebook for example your not the service that is being provided for the advertisers. This is a great position for any user, it also builds a very friendly connection with you and the other people of app.net, all knowing that you paid to be here, you paid for a new way, and you'll reap the benefits together.

Services and clients are already popping up everywhere in very developed and functionally stages, currently there are no clients for iOS in the app store but there are many in beta stages working through <a href="https://testflightapp.com/">Test Flight</a>, theres probably some for andriod but I don't follow them aswell as a whole plethera of web services. Find them all <a href="https://github.com/appdotnet/api-spec/wiki/Directory-of-third-party-devs-and-apps">here</a>.

I won't write to anymore in this post, only because I plan to keep on talking about app.net in later posts..